---
createdAt: January 15, 2022
updatedAt: January 16, 2022
url: https://github.com/garethlau/homebrew-floatingfile/releases/tag/v3.4.0
---

**Create Space**

`floatingfile create`

**Destroy Space**

`floatingfile destroy`

Options:

- `-c`, `--code`: Code of the space to destroy. If no code is provided, will fallback to the most recently accessed space if available. [string]

**List Recently Accessed Spaces**

`floatingfile spaces`

Options:

- `--def`: Suppply this flag to interactively set a new default space. [boolean]

**Upload Files**

`floatingfile upload [dir]`

Positionals:

- `dir`: Directory to upload files from. [string]

Options:

- `-c`, `--code`: Code of the space to upload files to. If no code is provided, will fallback to the most recently accessed space if available. [string]

- `-a`, `--all`: Upload all files within the directory. [boolean]

Examples:

```
$ floatingfile upload ~/Desktop/test_files/ --code=ABC123
> >> floatingfile
> (0) .DS_Store
> (1) Screen Recording 2022-01-13 at 01.06.54.mov
> (2) Screen Shot.png
> Which files do you want to upload?
$ 2
> [=====================] 100% | 41339/41339 bytes | Screen Shot.png
>
> Successfully uploaded:
> /Users/garethlau/Desktop/Screen Shot.png
```

**Remove Files**

`floatingfile remove`

Options:

- `-c`, `--code`: Code of the space to remove files from. If no code is provided, will fallback to the most recently accessed space if available. [string]

- `-a`, `--all`: Remove all files from the space. [boolean]

**List Files**

`floatingfile files`

Options:

- `-c`, `--code`: Code of the space to list files from. If no code is provided, will fallback to the most recently accessed space if available. [string]

**Download Files**

`floatingfile download [dir]`

Positionals:

- `dir`: Directory to download files to. If not provided, will fallback to default download directory. See config. [string]

Options:

- `-c`, `--code`: Code of the space to to download files from. If no code is provided, will fallback to the most recently accessed space if available. [string]

- `-a`, `--all`: Download all the files in the space. [boolean]

Examples:

```
$ floatingfile download ~/Downloads -a
> >>> floatingfile
> Are you sure you want to download all 1 files? (y/n)
$ y
> [=====================] 100% 41339/41339 bytes | picture.png
>
> Successfully downloaded:
> /Users/garethlau/Downloads/picture.png
```

**Read or Update Configurations**

`floatingfile config [<key>] [<value>]`

Positionals:

- `key` - The name of the configuration to view or update. See below for a list of possible keys. [string]
- `value` - New value to set the configuration to. [string]

Options:

- `-l`, `--list` - List all configurations. [boolean]

Examples:

_Read a Property_

```
$ floatingfile config username
> username=CLI
```

_Set a Property_

```
$ floatingfile config username Spiderman
```

_View all_

```
$ floatingfile config -l
> username=Spiderman
> download_to=Desktop/floatingfile
> group_by_space=Yes
```

Possible Keys:

- `username` - The username other users will see you as. By default, this is set to `CLI`.
- `download_to` - Detault path for file downloads. By default, this is set to `Downloads`.
- `group_by_space` - If set to "Yes", downloaded files will be placed into a directory with the space's code as the directory name. By default, this is set to "No".
